# Hermeneutics

How do you interpret the Bible, and what happens when you do?

Hermeneutics is the art of understanding and making oneself understood. It goes beyond analytical principles, emphasizing art over rule-governed science. This philosophical discipline explores the conditions for understanding, especially in interpreting texts—whether biblical, philosophical, or legal. In essence, hermeneutics delves into how meaning is formed and recognized within human communities.

Genesis 1 & 2 is not a science textbook, for example. It is a narrative. God doesn't tell us how He made the world, only that He did it.

Psalms are poetry and songs.
Kings and chronicles are history books, one deals with the events, one deals with the biography behind the events.

## Apostolic styles: 
**Kerygma**: The word “kerygma” comes from the Greek κηρύσσω (kerusso), which means “herald” or “one who proclaims.” In Christian faith, the kerygma refers to the core of apostolic preaching—the good news of salvation through Jesus.

**Homilia** (ὁμιλία) is a Greek word that denotes conversation, discourse, or interaction with other people. So, when you hear a homily during a religious service, it’s like engaging in a meaningful conversation with sacred truths!

**Didaskēm**: The Greek word “didaskēm” (διδαχή) means “teaching” or “instruction.” Also translated as, "doctrine." It refers to more extended teaching beyond the basic proclamation. In the context of catechesis, didaskēm helps believers grow in their understanding of Christ and the faith.

Teachings were:
- The gospel
- Right living (how do we show love to others)
- Doctrines, teaching concepts that deepen ones understanding on a subject
IMO: A good sermon employs all three: present the gospel, encourage / exhort Christians to live it, and explain the foundational teaching behind the exhortation.

## Don't add, don't take away.
> For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of this book, If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book: and if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part from the Book of Life, from the holy city, and *from* the things which are written in this book. — Revelation 22:18-19
The Pharisees taught as doctrines the commandments of men (Matthew 15:9) ~they added to God's word~.
The sadducees taught there were no miracles, no resurrection. ~They took away from God's word~.

## Midrash
**Midrash** is a mode of Jewish biblical **hermeneutic**  in biblical literature. Midrash Attempts to establish a pattern.
Unlike the literal approach (*peshat*), which seeks the straightforward meaning, midrash delves deeper, uncovering insights and connections within the words themselves.
The correct use of midrash is to look at the literal verse and then ask if there is a deeper precept that can be derived from it.

Paul famously used midrash when writing to Timothy, "Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn. And, The labourer *is* worthy of his reward." Paul was saying, "like an ox, I am working. If that makes me worthy of a reward, like an ox let me have it." 1 Timothy 5:18.

Midrash is not esoteric. It's a principal teaching derived from a literal one.

## Apologetics
**Apologetics** is the religious discipline of defending religious doctrines through systematic argumentation and discourse.

> But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts: and *be* ready always to *give* an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear — 1 Peter 3:15 (KJV)

give a defense
ἀπολογίαν (apologian)
Apologetics is often a defense for the existence of God, but it is also more. When you share the gospel, you are giving an apologia. When you are explaining why an exhortation exists, you are giving an apologia, and when you explain a doctrine you are giving an apologia. In short: any time you answer a question you are taking part in Apologetics.

> And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins. — 1 corinthians 15:17

Paul teaches that the resurrection is the truth or falsehood that underpins Christianity. Without the resurrection there is no Gospel. It is central.

## Light to Heavy
> Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some *is*; but exhorting *one another*: and so much the more, as ye see the day approaching. — Hebrews 10:25

**“Kal va-homer”** (Hebrew: קַל וַחֹמֶר), which means **“light and heavy”**. In Jewish halakhah (legal interpretation), it signifies that what applies in a **less important case**will certainly apply in a **more important one**.

Fellowship is always important, but during tribulation it is more important.

## Disagreements
> Iron sharpeneth iron; so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend. — Proverbs 27:17

In the Old Testament, the Hebrew word for **fellowship** is **“chaverah”** (חַבְרָה). It signifies close association, companionship, or friendship.

The Hebrew phrase for **“iron sharpening iron”** is **“כַּבְּרֶזֶל בְּבַרְזֶל יָחַד”** (kav’rezel b’verzel yachad). It appears in Proverbs 27:17 and conveys the idea that just as iron sharpens iron, so one person sharpens another through mutual interaction and growth.

A heretic is not someone who disagrees with you, a heretic is someone who is shown what is written and continues to teach wrong doctrine. A person can be wrong about something very important but we don't use the H word unless a person is given clear instruction why a teaching is wrong and continues to believe it. 

Example: Jesus ate food as proof He was bodily raised. Gnostics believed that Jesus never came bodily. So the Gnostics would teach Jesus never left foot prints in the sand because He was just a spirit. Biblically spirits didn't eat food. Every time Jesus is recorded as eating or being hungry we have evidence to refute the claims of the Gnostics John addressed so much in his letters.
Today, if someone believed the teaching that Jesus had no body you wouldn't use the H word unless you corrected the wrong teaching and were still rejected. 
At that point they aren't rejecting you, they are preferring a doctrine against what is plainly taught, that's rejecting the bible. 

Use the H word when something goes against the authority, not just you.

A lot of heretical teachings have been made, one of the jobs of Christians today is to know the Bible and use it to squash bugs as they appear. It is an appeal to authority not an opinion.
